at Katmai along the southern coast
speculators have been coming down from
the mountains
the Rizla bears they sleep hard through
the seven months of winter but their
summers are intense
whilst the males work out his boss this
female is more interested in finding
something to eat she's lost over a third
of her body weight during winter and
right now there's not much around except
grass a pumped-up meal could kill her
cub but it's worth the risk to come here
the Bears of this coast are all here
because a feast is about to be delivered
from the ocean
not that there's any sign of it yet
there is something else to eat on a
beach but it will only be available when
the tide goes out
it's under their feet
they can smell it
a clan it may not look like much but
this seafood is rich and these six mile
long mud flats are full of them
it's not as easy as it looks
all the while the clams are escaping
downwards through the sand sometimes
they move faster than a little bear can
dig a 130 kilogram grizzly mom needs to
find a couple of hundred clams a day to
make it was the effort but it all helps
to keep them going until the first real
feast of summer arrives